grace and peace in the name of Jesus
Christ I am Owen Thompson I'm the rector
of trini st. John's Episcopal Church in
hewlett New York I've been here for
approximately three years now and I'm
the second rector of the historic
churches which is very odd to some
people how can one be a second rector of
a church that was founded in 1800s I'm
very pleased to actually welcome you
further into the life of our parish as
it is indeed a wonderful place that I've
come to know and love of church filled
with God's love God's presence as
evident in the people as evident in our
diversity and and the many gifts in
towns we bring to the table some day
after Sunday day after day so what I
want to do with this wonderful
introduction is just to welcome you
further again to open the doors so to
speak that you may see all the people
inside and get a sense of what this
wonderful place is like and so what
we're going to do is take a brief tour
of our parish and hopefully you will see
what I have come to see the kingdom of
God made manifest right here in the
Hewlett New York so come on in relax and
enjoy well here we are I'm in the
sanctuary of the church here at trinity
st. john's and i'm currently standing in
the aisle leading up to our beautiful
altar and our beautiful chancel over to
my right you will see that we have the
wonderful pulpit where I myself and
other police have had the privilege over
the years of sharing God's word with the
people in the congregation likewise to
my right you will see that we have our
baptismal font that very sacred vessel
where we welcome in new members into the
life of the parish and I i just am
overjoyed to imagine how many children
and adults have been baptized in welcome
into this place throughout 18 but almost
100 and some our years of service here
in the parish and off to my left we have
the
wonderful Eagle lectern where our labor
is read the Word of God to the people
week after week and over my shoulder
you'll see our beautiful chancel where
the choir gathers we have the great
organ which is also historic piece and
also we have the altar which is
separated from the the chancel by the
altar rail symbolizing the movement from
the world into the kingdom of God it's
very powerful and as you can see in the
back which is the rude screen we have
the statute of Jesus Christ Mary his
mother and I believe it is John the
Baptist on the far side or his the
Beloved Disciple one of the two of not
quite sure yet but what we're going to
do is give you a tour of this beautiful
place and in the history and the meaning
both theological e and historically of
what this church has to offer and is
indeed a beautiful place I get that
sense of God's kingdom every time when I
come into this place for worship even
now as they stand here and there's no
service going on I still feel this holy
presence in this great place this parish
so we're going to take a walk around and
we're going to look at the various
things that we have from our
stained-glass windows as you can see
this wonderful cross above my head that
actually donated by a woman a
parishioner from back in 1800 and we
found out not long ago that in
containing in the in the arms if you
will of the Cross or her ashes her
remains are here so it's quite
fascinating and each piece of this
parish has a story in it because Trinity
was his own church 30 some-odd years ago
and then they joined together with st.
John's in far rockaway so they came
trinity st. John so each church
contributes to this great blessing that
we're all able to partake in you really
want to share that with you so come on
in and again let's take a look
you